## Module 07: Learning to Rank

1. Which of the three LTR algorithms had the highest accuracy? Why?
The pointwise algorithm had the best accuracy as measured by RMSE (i.e., 1.08 compared to 4.2 and 2.04).  This make sense since the pointwise algorithm used regression with ratings as the dependent variable, and RMSE measures overall fit between predicted and ground-truth ratings.  Since the algorithm was fit explicitly to minimize predicted error with respect to ratings, this algorithm by definition will have the best accuracy. But when nDGC is used as a measure of performance, the listwise LambdaRank algorithm preformed best.  This also makes sense, since this algorithm considers the ranking of all items on the recommended list, whereas the the pointwise algorithm uses predicted rating as a proxy for ranking and the pairwise algorithm only considers ranking between pairs of items per user.

1. Why would NDCG@K be a more suitable metric than Precision@K for evaluating ranked lists in certain situations?
In many applications, users will only engage with higher ranked items.  For example, users will not typically engage with a second or third page of recommendations and will instead focus on the first page.  Moreover, users will tend to engage with items higher up even on the first page. Precision@K does take the total number of recommendations into account (e.g., the parameter K), but it does not take into account where relevant items are placed within these K items.  nDCG@K, on the other hand, does measure this by including a penalty term for a relevant item being ranked lower. On the whole, this penalty term will nudge relevant items higher in the rankings.