## Hybrid Recommender Systems

1. The rationale is that by combining collaborative filtering and content-based filtering, your model should have performed better than each model separately. Was that the case? Why or why not?

Yes, it was the case that the performance improved slightly by using the hybrid model, though the improvement depended on which metric used.  The fact that the hybrid model offered improvement is due primarily to the ability of a hybrid model to incorporate a broader range of available data.  Content-based models can incorporate data related specifically to the attributes of the items, something which simple collaborative-filtering methods do not do.  But these content-based models often do not incorporate user-specific preferences like collaborative-filtering methods do by being trained on users' ratings. By running both models separately and then generating specific recommendations by taking a weighted combination, hybrid models can leverage both data sources. But the improvements were only marginal (and for some metrics under-performed), likely due to the limited review data and poor tuning of the TD-IDF algorithm.

1. Given the dataset we experiment using ratings and reviews from the musical instrument category of a large eCommerce retailer, what other features would have helped your model perform better?

Additional item-based data would likely help out performance of the content-based part of the model. Item-specific attributes such as type of instrument, brand, release date, price could all be turned into features to feed into creating item models. Moreover, user-based attributes that describe and capture a user's skill level, years of experience, frequency of play, and styles of music played would also help to better group users and users and items.  If available, incorporating a user's musical profile from music streaming data could likewise help to generate more helpful and relevant recommendations for instruments and related supplies.